README.md, before:

# SedLex

SedLex is a frontend generator for French bills compiled using [DuraLex](https://github.com/Legilibre/DuraLex).

## Installation

### Installing dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Fetching the original law texts

If you want to generate diffs, you will need to have the corresponding original law texts in the `data` directory.
This original data is expected to be a Git repositories created using  [Archeo-Lex](https://github.com/Legilibre/Archeo-Lex).

## Generating patch files

**Before generating patch files, you must fetch the corresponding original law texts. In order to do so, please read the ["Fetching the original law texts"](#fetching-the-original-law-texts) section.**

By default, the intermediary representation will not compute/feature the diff of each edit.
You must add the `--diff` switch to the command line:

```bash
duralex --file bill.html | ./bin/sedlex --diff
```

```json
{
  "children": [
    {
      "children": [
        {
          "children": [
            {
              "children": [
                {
                  "type": "quote",
                  "words": "autorisé"
                }
              ],
              "type": "words"
            },
            {
              "children": [
                {
                  "children": [
                    {
                      "children": [
                        {
                          "children": [
                            {
                              "type": "quote",
                              "words": "défendu"
                            }
                          ],
                          "type": "words-reference"
                        }
                      ],
                      "order": 1,
                      "type": "sentence-reference"
                    }
                  ],
                  "filename": "data/code des instruments monétaires et des médailles/9.md",
                  "id": "9",
                  "type": "article-reference"
                }
              ],
              "codeName": "code des instruments monétaires et des médailles",
              "type": "code-reference"
            }
          ],
          "diff": "--- \"data/code des instruments monétaires et des médailles/9.md\"\n+++ \"data/code des instruments monétaires et des médailles/9.md\"\n@@ -1,6 +1,6 @@\n # titre 1\n \n-Il est expressément défendu à toutes personnes, quelles que soient les professions qu'elles exercent, de frapper ou de faire frapper des médailles, jetons ou pièces de plaisir, d'or, d'argent et autres métaux, ailleurs que dans les ateliers de la monnaie, à moins d'être munies d'une autorisation spéciale du ministre de l'économie et des finances.\n+Il est expressément autorisé à toutes personnes, quelles que soient les professions qu'elles exercent, de frapper ou de faire frapper des médailles, jetons ou pièces de plaisir, d'or, d'argent et autres métaux, ailleurs que dans les ateliers de la monnaie, à moins d'être munies d'une autorisation spéciale du ministre de l'économie et des finances.\n \n # titre 2\n ",
          "editType": "replace",
          "type": "edit"
        }
      ],
      "isNew": false,
      "order": 1,
      "type": "article"
    }
  ]
}
```

Then, using [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/), it is easy to extract only the `diff` fields:

```bash
duralex --file bill.html | ./bin/sedlex --diff | jq -r '.. | .diff? | strings'
```

```patch
--- "data/code des instruments monétaires et des médailles/9.md"
+++ "data/code des instruments monétaires et des médailles/9.md"
@@ -1,6 +1,6 @@
 # titre 1

-Il est expressément défendu à toutes personnes, quelles que soient les professions qu'elles exercent, de frapper ou de faire frapper des médailles, jetons ou pièces de plaisir, d'or, d'argent et autres métaux, ailleurs que dans les ateliers de la monnaie, à moins d'être munies d'une autorisation spéciale du ministre de l'économie et des finances.
+Il est expressément autorisé à toutes personnes, quelles que soient les professions qu'elles exercent, de frapper ou de faire frapper des médailles, jetons ou pièces de plaisir, d'or, d'argent et autres métaux, ailleurs que dans les ateliers de la monnaie, à moins d'être munies d'une autorisation spéciale du ministre de l'économie et des finances.

 # titre 2
```

Such output can be written in a patch file to be applied later:

```bash
duralex --file bill.html | ./bin/sedlex --diff | jq -r '.. | .diff? | strings' > articles.patch
```

or it can be piped to apply the patch directly:

```bash
duralex --file bill.html | ./bin/sedlex --diff | jq -r '.. | .diff? | strings' | patch -p0
```

## Git Integration

SedLex can automagically apply each `edit` node into an actual Git commit by passing the `--git-commit` flag.

SedLex can also generate meaningful commit messages by passing the `--commit-message` flag.
For example, the following `edit` node:

```json
{
  "children": [
    {
      "children": [
        {
          "type": "quote",
          "words": "autorisé"
        }
      ],
      "type": "words"
    },
    {
      "children": [
        {
          "children": [
            {
              "children": [
                {
                  "children": [
                    {
                      "type": "quote",
                      "words": "défendu"
                    }
                  ],
                  "type": "words-reference"
                }
              ],
              "order": 1,
              "type": "sentence-reference"
            }
          ],
          "filename": "data/code des instruments monétaires et des médailles/9.md",
          "id": "9",
          "type": "article-reference"
        }
      ],
      "codeName": "code des instruments monétaires et des médailles",
      "type": "code-reference"
    }
  ],
  "editType": "replace",
  "type": "edit"
}
```

will generate the following commit message:

> Remplacer les mots "défendu" dans l'article 9 par les mots "autorisé" (Article 1).

Each commit message is added as a `commitMessage` field on the corresponding `edit` node:

```json
{
  "type": "edit",
  "editType": "replace",
  "commitMessage": "Remplacer les mots \"défendu\" dans l'article 9 par les mots \"autorisé\" (Article 1).",
}
```

## GitHub Integration

SedLex can automagically create a [GitHub](https://github.com) issue for each `article` node by passing the
`--github-repository` and `--github-token` flags. Each article from the original bill will become a GitHub issue with:

* a title of the form "Article {{ article.order }}" (ex: "Article 42");
* a description containing the original content of the corresponding article.

Such issue will also be referenced by the commit message of all the `edit` nodes that are descendants of the
corresponding `article` node. For example, this commit message:

> Remplacer les mots "défendu" dans l'article 9 par les mots "autorisé" (Article 1).

would become:

> Remplacer les mots "défendu" dans l'article 9 par les mots "autorisé" (Article 1).

> GitHub: https://github.com/Legilibre/CIMM-articles/issues/1

*In the example above, proper meaningful commit messages are generated by adding the `--commit-message` flags, cf
[Git integration](#git-integration).*

Thus, each edit/commit will reference the corresponding article/issue (and vice versa) with clickable links when viewed on GitHub.

```bash
sedlex \
    --github-token your_api_token_here --github-repository namespace/repository \
    --diff \
    --commit-message \
    --git-commit \
    --git-push
```

## GitLab Integration

The GitLab integration works exactly like [the GitHub integration](#github-integration) except it's configured using the
`--gitlab-repository` and `--gitlab-token` flags.

```bash
sedlex \
    --gitlab-token your_api_token_here --gitlab-repository namespace/repository \
    --diff \
    --commit-message \
    --git-commit \
    --git-push
```

## GitBook Integration

SedLex can automagically create a [GitBook](https://www.gitbook.com) by passing the `--gitbook` option. This option
must be set to the output directory for the content generated by GitBook.

Commit message:

Document how to template the content generated on GitHub/GitLab.

README.md, after:

# SedLex

SedLex is a frontend generator for French bills compiled using [DuraLex](https://github.com/Legilibre/DuraLex).

## Installation

### Installing dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Fetching the original law texts

If you want to generate diffs, you will need to have the corresponding original law texts in the `data` directory.
This original data is expected to be a Git repositories created using  [Archeo-Lex](https://github.com/Legilibre/Archeo-Lex).

## Generating patch files

**Before generating patch files, you must fetch the corresponding original law texts. In order to do so, please read the ["Fetching the original law texts"](#fetching-the-original-law-texts) section.**

By default, the intermediary representation will not compute/feature the diff of each edit.
You must add the `--diff` switch to the command line:

```bash
duralex --file bill.html | ./bin/sedlex --diff
```

```json
{
  "children": [
    {
      "children": [
        {
          "children": [
            {
              "children": [
                {
                  "type": "quote",
                  "words": "autorisé"
                }
              ],
              "type": "words"
            },
            {
              "children": [
                {
                  "children": [
                    {
                      "children": [
                        {
                          "children": [
                            {
                              "type": "quote",
                              "words": "défendu"
                            }
                          ],
                          "type": "words-reference"
                        }
                      ],
                      "order": 1,
                      "type": "sentence-reference"
                    }
                  ],
                  "filename": "data/code des instruments monétaires et des médailles/9.md",
                  "id": "9",
                  "type": "article-reference"
                }
              ],
              "codeName": "code des instruments monétaires et des médailles",
              "type": "code-reference"
            }
          ],
          "diff": "--- \"data/code des instruments monétaires et des médailles/9.md\"\n+++ \"data/code des instruments monétaires et des médailles/9.md\"\n@@ -1,6 +1,6 @@\n # titre 1\n \n-Il est expressément défendu à toutes personnes, quelles que soient les professions qu'elles exercent, de frapper ou de faire frapper des médailles, jetons ou pièces de plaisir, d'or, d'argent et autres métaux, ailleurs que dans les ateliers de la monnaie, à moins d'être munies d'une autorisation spéciale du ministre de l'économie et des finances.\n+Il est expressément autorisé à toutes personnes, quelles que soient les professions qu'elles exercent, de frapper ou de faire frapper des médailles, jetons ou pièces de plaisir, d'or, d'argent et autres métaux, ailleurs que dans les ateliers de la monnaie, à moins d'être munies d'une autorisation spéciale du ministre de l'économie et des finances.\n \n # titre 2\n ",
          "editType": "replace",
          "type": "edit"
        }
      ],
      "isNew": false,
      "order": 1,
      "type": "article"
    }
  ]
}
```

Then, using [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/), it is easy to extract only the `diff` fields:

```bash
duralex --file bill.html | ./bin/sedlex --diff | jq -r '.. | .diff? | strings'
```

```patch
--- "data/code des instruments monétaires et des médailles/9.md"
+++ "data/code des instruments monétaires et des médailles/9.md"
@@ -1,6 +1,6 @@
 # titre 1

-Il est expressément défendu à toutes personnes, quelles que soient les professions qu'elles exercent, de frapper ou de faire frapper des médailles, jetons ou pièces de plaisir, d'or, d'argent et autres métaux, ailleurs que dans les ateliers de la monnaie, à moins d'être munies d'une autorisation spéciale du ministre de l'économie et des finances.
+Il est expressément autorisé à toutes personnes, quelles que soient les professions qu'elles exercent, de frapper ou de faire frapper des médailles, jetons ou pièces de plaisir, d'or, d'argent et autres métaux, ailleurs que dans les ateliers de la monnaie, à moins d'être munies d'une autorisation spéciale du ministre de l'économie et des finances.

 # titre 2
```

Such output can be written in a patch file to be applied later:

```bash
duralex --file bill.html | ./bin/sedlex --diff | jq -r '.. | .diff? | strings' > articles.patch
```

or it can be piped to apply the patch directly:

```bash
duralex --file bill.html | ./bin/sedlex --diff | jq -r '.. | .diff? | strings' | patch -p0
```

## Git Integration

SedLex can automagically apply each `edit` node into an actual Git commit by passing the `--git-commit` flag.

SedLex can also generate meaningful commit messages by passing the `--commit-message` flag.
For example, the following `edit` node:

```json
{
  "children": [
    {
      "children": [
        {
          "type": "quote",
          "words": "autorisé"
        }
      ],
      "type": "words"
    },
    {
      "children": [
        {
          "children": [
            {
              "children": [
                {
                  "children": [
                    {
                      "type": "quote",
                      "words": "défendu"
                    }
                  ],
                  "type": "words-reference"
                }
              ],
              "order": 1,
              "type": "sentence-reference"
            }
          ],
          "filename": "data/code des instruments monétaires et des médailles/9.md",
          "id": "9",
          "type": "article-reference"
        }
      ],
      "codeName": "code des instruments monétaires et des médailles",
      "type": "code-reference"
    }
  ],
  "editType": "replace",
  "type": "edit"
}
```

will generate the following commit message:

> Remplacer les mots "défendu" dans l'article 9 par les mots "autorisé" (Article 1).

Each commit message is added as a `commitMessage` field on the corresponding `edit` node:

```json
{
  "type": "edit",
  "editType": "replace",
  "commitMessage": "Remplacer les mots \"défendu\" dans l'article 9 par les mots \"autorisé\" (Article 1).",
}
```

## GitHub Integration

SedLex can automagically create a [GitHub](https://github.com) issue for each `article` node by passing the
`--github-repository` and `--github-token` flags. As a result, each edit/commit will reference the corresponding
article/issue (and vice versa). Each article from the original bill will become a GitHub issue with:

* a title of the form "Article {{ article.order }}" (ex: "Article 42");
* a description containing the original content of the corresponding article.

Such issue will also be referenced by the commit message of all the `edit` nodes that are descendants of the
corresponding `article` node. For example, this commit message:

> Remplacer les mots "défendu" dans l'article 9 par les mots "autorisé" (Article 1).

would become:

> Remplacer les mots "défendu" dans l'article 9 par les mots "autorisé" (Article 1).

> GitHub: https://github.com/Legilibre/CIMM-articles/issues/1

*In the example above, proper meaningful commit messages are generated by adding the `--commit-message` flags, cf
[Git integration](#git-integration).*

All the generated content is templated by the following jinja2 templates:

* the title of the issue: `template/github/issue_title.j2`
* the body of the issue: `template/github/issue_body.j2`
* the commit message: `template/github/commit_message.j2`

The following command line will effectively compute diffs, create commit messages, apply and commit and push the changes on Git and create all the relevant content on GitHub:

```bash
duralex --file bill.html | sedlex \
    --github-token your_api_token_here --github-repository namespace/repository \
    --diff \
    --commit-message \
    --git-commit \
    --git-push
```

## GitLab Integration

The GitLab integration works exactly like [the GitHub integration](#github-integration) except it's configured using the
`--gitlab-repository` and `--gitlab-token` flags.

All the generated content is templated by the following jinja2 templates:

* the title of the issue: `template/gitlab/issue_title.j2`
* the body of the issue: `template/gitlab/issue_description.j2`
* the commit message: `template/gitlab/commit_message.j2`

The following command line will effectively compute diffs, create commit messages, apply and commit and push the changes on Git and create all the relevant content on GitLab:

```bash
duralex --file bill.html | sedlex \
    --gitlab-token your_api_token_here --gitlab-repository namespace/repository \
    --diff \
    --commit-message \
    --git-commit \
    --git-push
```

## GitBook Integration

SedLex can automagically create a [GitBook](https://www.gitbook.com) by passing the `--gitbook` option. This option
must be set to the output directory for the content generated by GitBook.
